# Automatic Security Assessment of GitHub Actions Workflows
## GHAST
​
## Setup
​
This prototype is compatible with Ubuntu 20.04 and Python 3.8.
​
Also, GHAST needs a running Neo4j server.
To execute Neo4j, download the Ubuntu tar file from https://neo4j.com/download-center/#community, open a terminal and then execute the command `./bin/neo4j console`
​
The server should run on localhost using the default port (7474). The first time you need to set log in using a browser to setup the username and the password. You can use the default user "Neo4j" and set the password to "password".
​
Also you need a valid GitHub Token. To generate a GitHub token please refer to https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.4/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token.
​
Inside the scored folder create an environment in python3 and install the requirements using the following command: `python3 -m venv venv`
​
Activate the environment using `source venv/bin/activate`, then give the execution permissions to the run script using `chmod +x run.sh`.
​
Install the requirements using the command `pip install -r requirements.txt`
​
## Execution
​
First, you must copy the folder of the software under test inside of the `samples` directory.
​
Then you need to copy the GitHub token inside the run.sh file by replacing the tag `<ghtoken>`;
​
After that, execute the following command: `run.sh <project_name> <timeout>`
​
where `<project_name>` is the name of the directory copied in the `samples` directory and `<timeout>` is the maximum time (expressed in minutes) allowed to perform the analysis. The suggested value for `<timeout>` is 20.
​
At the end of the computation, the results will be stored in a subfolder of the `experiments` directory named `_mm-dd-yyyy_HH:MM:ss\_<project_name>_`. The folder will contain a set of artifacts generated by GHAST and a file named `<project_name>_report.json` containing the security issues identified.
